What is a Computer?

    A Computer is a calculating machine.
    People who did basic math for a job were called computers.

    Everything inside a computer is represented by numbers.

    Computers are dumb, but very fast.
    They are good at doing the simple things over and over again very quickly.

    If a computer only understands numbers then,
     how can a computer act as;
      a word processor,
      a paint program,
      or a music player?

    Letters, colors, and sounds are converted to numbers,
    and then later the numbers can be converted back to
    letters, colors, and sounds.

    Instructions a computer executes are also stored as numbers.

    A general purpose computer like a PC is at its core,
     a machine the simply processes one instruction after another.

    A PC has hardware that converts;
            key-strokes,
            mouse-clicks/finger-touches,
        into numeric input,
    and converts numeric output into;
        colors,
        and symbols
    on the screen.


What is a program?

    A program is like a recipe or an instruction manual.
    It contains a series of steps to be done.

    A computer program is made of lines of code.
    The lines of code define statements.
    These statements are instructional steps.

    The statements can be organized in a variety or ways.

    The simplest is called a Script which is just a series of statements,
     to be executed in sequence; one after the other.

    The second most common technique for code organization is defining Functions.
    A function is a set of steps that will be used more than once.


What is a function?

    Like a recipe book defines early on how to make a sauce.
    Later on in other recipes they simply name the sauce.
    The name of the sauce implies all the steps in making the sauce.

    The smallest unit of work in Mathematics is a Function.

    A function is any process that,
        takes some kind of input,
        and returns some kind of output.

        Here is a mathematical equation where
         "o" stands for output,
         and "i" stands for input,
         and "f" stands for function

         o = f(i)


     From these facts we derive,
      the first law of computing:
         Garbage in; Garbage out


What is a programming Language?

    A programming language allows us to instruct the computer.

    It is closer to the way we think than the way the computer thinks.

    It can be easily and automatically translated, into machine code.

    Machine code is a computers native tongue.

    It is composed of numeric instructions.

    Executing machine code the only thing a computer can do.